[DOC] Improve and simplify README.md and NewToGluten.md (#10793)
apache/incubator-gluten: docs/developers/NewToGluten.md

So add the following configs in `spark-defaults.conf`:

```
spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true
spark.executor.extraJavaOptions=-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true
```

### Maven 3.6.3 or above

### GCC 11 or above

## Development

To debug Java/Scala code, follow the steps in [build-gluten-with-velox-backend](../get-started/Velox.md#build-gluten-with-velox-backend).

To debug C++ code, compile the backend code and gluten C++ code in debug mode.

```bash
## compile Velox backend with benchmark and tests to debug
gluten_home/dev/builddeps-veloxbe.sh --build_tests=ON --build_benchmarks=ON --build_type=Debug
```

Note: To debug the tests in <gluten>/gluten-ut, you must compile java code with `-Pspark-ut`.

### Java/scala code development

#### Linux IntelliJ local debug

Install the Linux IntelliJ version, and debug code locally.

- Ask your linux maintainer to install the desktop, and then restart the server.

> - If you use Moba-XTerm to connect linux server, you don't need to install x11 server, If not (e.g. putty), follow this guide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you use Moba-XTerm to connect, you don't need to install x11 server. If you are using another tool, such as putty, follow this guide:

```
Nits for conciseness, cutting the long sentence into two for easier reading, and adding a line break to left-justify the link.

[X11 Forwarding: Setup Instructions for Linux and Mac](https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/11035-how-to-use-x11-forwarding.html)

- Download [IntelliJ Linux community version](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?fromIDE=#section=linux) to Linux server
- Start Idea, `bash <idea_dir>/idea.sh`

#### Set up Gluten project

- Make sure you have compiled Gluten.

> - Load the Gluten by File->Open, select <gluten_home/pom.xml>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Load the Gluten by **File**->**Open**, select **<gluten_home/pom.xml>**.
```

- Activate your profiles such as `<backends-velox>`, then **Reload Maven Project** to activate all the needed modules.
- Create breakpoints and debug as you wish. You can use `CTRL+N` to locate a test class to start your test.

#### Java/Scala code style

IntelliJ supports importing settings for Java/Scala code style. You can import [intellij-codestyle.xml](../../dev/intellij-codestyle.xml) to your IDE.
See [IntelliJ guide](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/configuring-code-style.html#import-code-style).

To format Java/Scala code using the Spotless plugin, run the following command:

```
./dev/format-scala-code.sh
```

### C++ code development

This guide is for remote debugging by connecting to the remote Linux server using `SSH`.

Download and install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).

Key components found on the left side bar are:
- Explorer (Project structure)
- Search
- Run and Debug
- Extensions (Install the C/C++ Extension Pack, Remote Development, and GitLens. C++ Test Mate is also suggested.)

> - Remote Explorer (Connect linux server by ssh command, click **+**, then input `ssh user@10.1.7.003`)

Reviewer: Is `10.1.7.003` always going to be the correct DNS address to enter for every user? If not, the text should explain how to find what the correct DNS address is.

Author: I updated with `ssh USERNAME@REMOTE_SERVER_IP_ADDRESS`. Thanks.

- Manage (Settings)

Input your password in the above pop-up window. It will take a few minutes to install the Linux VSCode server in remote machine folder `~/.vscode-server`.

If the download fails, delete this folder and try again.

> Note: If VSCode is upgraded, you must download the linux server again. We recommend switching the update mode to `off`. Search `update` in Manage->Settings to turn off update mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If VSCode is upgraded, you must download the linux server again. We recommend switching the update mode to `off`. Search `update` in **Manage**->**Settings** to turn off update mode.
```

#### Set up project

- Select **File**->**Open Folder**, then select the Gluten folder.
- After the project loads, you will be prompted to **Select CMakeLists.txt**. Select the
  `${workspaceFolder}/cpp/CMakeLists.txt` file.
- Next, you will be prompted to **Select a Kit** for the Gluten project. Select **GCC 11** or above.

#### Settings

> VSCode supports 2 ways to set user setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VSCode supports two ways to set the user settings.
```

> - Manage->Command Palette (Open `settings.json`, search by `Preferences: Open Settings (JSON)`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Manage**->**Command Palette** (Open `settings.json`, search by `Preferences: Open Settings (JSON)`)
```

> - Manage->Settings (Common setting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Manage**->**Settings** (Common setting)
```

#### Build using VSCode

> VSCode will try to compile using debug mode in <gluten_home>/build. You must compile Velox debug mode before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VSCode will try to compile using debug mode in `<gluten_home>/build`. You must compile Velox debug mode before
```

Gluten supports Ubuntu 20.04/22.04, CentOS 7/8, and MacOS.

### JDK

Currently, Gluten supports JDK 8 for Spark 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, and 3.5. For Spark 3.3 and later versions, Gluten
also supports JDK 11 and 17.

Note: Starting with Spark 4.0, the minimum required JDK version is 17.

We recommend using a higher JDK version now to ease migration when deploying Gluten for Spark 4.0
in the future. In addition, we may upgrade Arrow from 15.0.0 to a newer release, which will require
JDK 11 as the minimum version.

By default, Gluten compiles packages using JDK 8. Enable maven profile by `-Pjava-17` or `-Pjava-11` to use the corresponding JDK version, and ensure that the JDK version is available in your environment.

If JDK 11 or a higher version is used, Spark and Arrow require setting the java args `-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true`, see [SPARK-29924](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/SPARK-29924) and [ARROW-6206](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARROW-6206).
Add the following configs in `spark-defaults.conf`:

```
spark.driver.extraJavaOptions=-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true
spark.executor.extraJavaOptions=-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true
```

> ### Maven 3.6.3 or above

Author: Yes, I agree. It looks better after the update.

### GCC 11 or above

## Development

To debug Java/Scala code, follow the steps in [build-gluten-with-velox-backend](../get-started/Velox.md#build-gluten-with-velox-backend).

To debug C++ code, compile the backend code and gluten C++ code in debug mode.

```bash
## compile Velox backend with benchmark and tests to debug
gluten_home/dev/builddeps-veloxbe.sh --build_tests=ON --build_benchmarks=ON --build_type=Debug
```

Note: To debug the tests in <gluten>/gluten-ut, you must compile java code with `-Pspark-ut`.

### Java/scala code development

#### Linux IntelliJ local debug

Install the Linux IntelliJ version, and debug code locally.

- Ask your linux maintainer to install the desktop, and then restart the server.
- If you use Moba-XTerm to connect, you don't need to install x11 server. If you are using another tool, such as putty, follow this guide:
  [X11 Forwarding: Setup Instructions for Linux and Mac](https://www.businessnewsdaily.com/11035-how-to-use-x11-forwarding.html)

- Download [IntelliJ Linux community version](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/?fromIDE=#section=linux) to Linux server.
- Start Idea using the following command:

>   `bash <idea_dir>/idea.sh`

Author: It makes sense. I've updated. Thanks.

#### Set up Gluten project

- Make sure you have compiled Gluten.
- Load the Gluten by **File**->**Open**, select **<gluten_home/pom.xml>**.
- Activate your profiles such as `<backends-velox>`, then **Reload Maven Project** to activate all the needed modules.
- Create breakpoints and debug as you wish. You can use `CTRL+N` to locate a test class to start your test.

#### Java/Scala code style

IntelliJ supports importing settings for Java/Scala code style. You can import [intellij-codestyle.xml](../../dev/intellij-codestyle.xml) to your IDE.
See [IntelliJ guide](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/configuring-code-style.html#import-code-style).

> To format Java/Scala code using the Spotless plugin, run the following command:

Author: Yes, it's correct. Thanks.

Download and install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).

Key components found on the left side bar are:
- Explorer (Project structure)
- Search
- Run and Debug
- Extensions (Install the C/C++ Extension Pack, Remote Development, and GitLens. C++ Test Mate is also suggested.)
- Remote Explorer (Connect linux server by ssh command, click **+**, then input `ssh USERNAME@REMOTE_SERVER_IP_ADDRESS`)
- Manage (Settings)

Input your password in the above pop-up window. It will take a few minutes to install the Linux VSCode server in remote machine folder `~/.vscode-server`.

If the download fails, delete this folder and try again.

Note: If VSCode is upgraded, you must download the linux server again. We recommend switching the update mode to `off`. Search `update` in **Manage**->**Settings** to turn off update mode.

#### Set up project

- Select **File**->**Open Folder**, then select the Gluten folder.
- After the project loads, you will be prompted to **Select CMakeLists.txt**. Select the
  `${workspaceFolder}/cpp/CMakeLists.txt` file.
- Next, you will be prompted to **Select a Kit** for the Gluten project. Select **GCC 11** or above.

#### Settings

> VSCode supports two ways to set user setting.

Author: I also changed "set" to "configure" to avoid sounding a bit repetitive. Thanks.

```

Then Gluten will link the Velox debug library.

> Click **build** in the bottom bar to enable IntelliSense features like search and navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Click **build** in the bottom bar to enable IntelliSense features like search and navigation.
```
Suggest left-justifying this instruction to make it more visible to the reader.

Then Gluten will link the Velox debug library.
Just click `build` in bottom bar, you will get intellisense search and link.

#### Debug Setting

> The default compile command does not enable test and benchmark, so we don't get any executable files.

Author: I updated with "The default compile command does not enable tests and benchmarks, so the corresponding executable files are not generated." If you have any suggestions, please let me know.

> After compiling with these updated configs, you should have executable files (such as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After compiling with these updated configs, you should have executable files, such as 
```

> `<gluten_home>/cpp/build/velox/tests/velox_shuffle_writer_test`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`<gluten_home>/cpp/build/velox/tests/velox_shuffle_writer_test`.
```

> Click the `Add Configuration` button in launch.json, and select gdb "launch" (to start and debug a program) or

Author: I updated with "..select gdb **launch** to start a program for debugging..", which appears clearer.

   * Set Args: `--first-comment-is-literal=True`.
   * Set Exe Path to the path of the `cmake-format` command. If you installed `cmake-format` in a standard
      location, you might not need to change this setting.
3. Format your CMake files by right-clicking in a file and selecting `Format Document`.

> #### Add UT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add Unit Tests
```

>    * Set Args: `--first-comment-is-literal=True`.

Author: Regarding the third suggestion, I updated with "and configure the following settings as shown:", which seems more natural.

4. Placement of Non-Native Code UTs: Ensure that unit tests for non-native code are placed within org.apache.gluten and org.apache.spark packages. 
   This is important because the CI system runs unit tests from these two paths in parallel. Placing tests in other paths might cause your tests to be ignored.

> #### View surefire reports of Velox ut in GHA  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### View Surefire reports of Velox Unit Tests in GHA  
```

4. Placement of Non-Native Code UTs: Ensure that unit tests for non-native code are placed within org.apache.gluten and org.apache.spark packages. 
   This is important because the CI system runs unit tests from these two paths in parallel. Placing tests in other paths might cause your tests to be ignored.

#### View Surefire reports of Velox unit tests in GHA

Surefire reports are invaluable tools in the ecosystem of Java-based applications that utilize the Maven build automation tool.  
These reports are generated by the Maven Surefire Plugin during the testing phase of your build process.  
They compile results from unit tests, providing detailed insights into which tests passed or failed, what errors were encountered, and other essential metrics.  

Surefire reports play a crucial role in the development and maintenance of high-quality software.  

> We provide surefire reports of Velox ut in GHA, and developers can leverage urefire reports with early bug detection and quality assurance.

Reviewer: I like it. Good rephrase!

Then you can create breakpoint and debug in `Run and Debug` section.

#### Debug Velox code

For some Velox tests such as `ParquetReaderTest`, tests need to read the parquet file in `<velox_home>/velox/dwio/parquet/tests/examples`, 

> you should let the screen on `ParquetReaderTest.cpp`, then click `Start Debugging`, otherwise `No such file or directory` exception will be raised.

Reviewer: That helps me understand, thanks! I suggest 

"Select `ParquetReaderTest.cpp` in the IDE window"

Does that correctly describe what you want the user to do?

> You can check surefire reports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check Surefire reports:
```

1. Click **Checks** Tab in PR;

> 2. Find `Report test results` in `Dev PR`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Find **Report test results** in **Dev PR**;
```

> 3. Then, developers can check the result with summary and annotations.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. There, you can can check the results with summary and annotations.  
```

(gdb) c
```

## Debug Memory Leaks

### Arrow memory allocator leak

If you receive an error message like the following:

```bash

> 4/04/18 08:15:38 WARN ArrowBufferAllocators$ArrowBufferAllocatorManager: Detected leaked Arrow allocator [Default], size: 191, process accumulated leaked size: 191...

Reviewer: Please edit line 318 to the following:

"You can open the Arrow allocator debug config by adding the VP option `-Darrow.memory.debug.allocator=true`.  That gives you more details, like the following example:"

              at org.apache.spark.memory.SparkMemoryUtil$UnsafeItr.hasNext(SparkMemoryUtil.scala:246)
```

### CPP code memory leak

Sometimes you cannot get the coredump symbols, when debugging a memory leak. You can write a GoogleTest to use valgrind for detection.

```bash
apt install valgrind
valgrind --leak-check=yes ./exec_backend_test
```

## Run TPC-H and TPC-DS

We supply `<gluten_home>/tools/gluten-it` to execute these queries

> Refer to [velox_backend.yml](https://github.com/apache/incubator-gluten/blob/main/.github/workflows/velox_backend.yml)

Reviewer: Broken link: I don't find the file `velox_backend.yml` in https://github.com/apache/incubator-gluten/tree/main/.github/workflows. There are four files named in the format `velox_backend_*.yml` but I don't know which of them to link to.

              at org.apache.spark.memory.SparkMemoryUtil$UnsafeItr.hasNext(SparkMemoryUtil.scala:246)
```

### CPP code memory leak

> Sometimes you cannot get the coredump symbols, when debugging a memory leak. You can write a GoogleTest to use valgrind for detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you cannot get the coredump symbols when debugging a memory leak. You can write a GoogleTest to use valgrind for detection.
```

 --conf spark.shuffle.manager=org.apache.spark.shuffle.sort.ColumnarShuffleManager
```

## Check Gluten Approved Spark Plan

To make sure we don't accidentally modify the Gluten and Spark Plan build logic.
We introduce new logic in `VeloxTPCHSuite` to check whether the plan has been changed or not,

> and this will be triggered when running the unit test.

Reviewer: Your update makes sense to me! I have no suggestions to make to these latest changes.
